

Day 1: Marrakech - Arrival
Desert Explorer by 4X4
9 Nights / 10 Days
On arrival at Marrakech airport, meet & greet by your English speaking tour escort and private transfer to your hotel.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 2: Marrakech
This morning, we will discover the city's architectural attractions situated inside the Medina: The Koutoubia minaret, the most perfect Islamic religious structure in North Africa. The Saadian Mausoleum displaying high level of decoration, using traditional stucco and Granada-style carving, typical of classical Moroccan buildings. The Bahia Palace, a masterpiece of domestic architecture and Dar Si Said one of the most beautiful palaces, now home to the museum of Moroccan Arts and Crafts.
In the afternoon, we will visit the labyrinthine souks in the old town. We will explore colourful alleys and small squares, home to stalls and ateliers devoted to specific crafts. In the early evening, we will head to Djemaa El Fna, the city's main square and the beating heart of Marrakech, where mime artists and street musicians perform at every turn.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 3: Marrakech/Zagora
Early this morning, we will drive along one of the most scenic roads in southern Morocco, following the old tribal pass across the Atlas Mountains which bared the traffic of the old caravan route. En route, we will visit Kasbah Telouet, a former palace of the Berber chieftain El Glaoui. Heading further south, dirt roads take over to Ait Benhaddou along the fabulous Ounila Valley. Perched on a hilltop, this fortified village is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. After lunch, we will be driving towards the Saharan mountain ranges of the Anti Atlas via Agdz and then along the Draa valley until we arrive in Zagora, the starting point to explore the desert.
Dinner and overnight in Zagora.
Day 4: Zagora/Erg Lihoudi
This morning will be at leisure to relax in your hotel. In the afternoon, we will drive south of Zagora along the Draa Valley to the village of Tamegroute where we will visit the library housing about 4.000 manuscripts and the nearby traditional pottery. Afterwards, we will drive to Tagounit where we will take an off-road to our desert camp situated in the sand dunes of Erg Lihoudi. Upon arrival, camel ride in the dunes to watch the spectacular sunset and then back to our camp.
Dinner and overnight in tented camp in Erg Lihoudi.
Day 5: Erg Lihoudi / Chegaga
After breakfast we will ride camels in the desert to the oasis of Oulad Driss. Here, we will visit an old kasbah, local museum and palmery. Picnic lunch before driving further south via the oasis of Oum Laalag towards the dunes of Chegaga where we will camp near the big dune.
Dinner and overnight in tented camp in Chegaga.
Day 6: Chegaga / Foum Zguid
Today, we will wake up early to admire the beautiful sunrise in the sand dunes before heading west via the dry lake of Iriki to the remote village of Zaouit Sidi Abdenbi. En route, we will stop to share Saharan tea with the nomads in their Bedouin tents. After a picnic lunch, we will start our fossil prospection in the desert before joining our campsite in the oasis of Foum Zguid.
Dinner and overnight in Foum Zguid.
Day 7: Foum Zguid / Taroudant
Today, we will head west to Taroudant via the verdant oasis of Tissint where we will stop for tea in a Berber home. We will see the nearby waterfalls before continuing to Tata for lunch. In the afternoon, we will drive to Taroudant via the town of Igherm, crossing hills interspersed by remote Berber villages and Argan trees orchards. Dinner and overnight in Taroudant.
Day 8: Taroudant/Marrakech
After breakfast, depart for a morning exploration of this charming and ancient ochre-red walled market town. Taroudant is an attractive old capital with rather a sleepy feel and a very relaxing and friendly place. Among the city highlights are the 5 kms ramparts that surround the old town, the colourful tanneries and the bustling souks with the local specialities of silver jewellery. This afternoon, we will drive back to Marrakech via the new highway.
Dinner and overnight in Marrakech.
Day 9: Marrakech
We will spend this morning visiting the beautiful gardens which are dotted around the city.
The Menara gardens, set in an extensive olive grove with its huge pool and fabulous view of the Atlas Mountains, The Jardin Majorelle designed by the French artist Jacques Majorelle. This garden is a fabulous tropical paradise, surrounded by vivid cobalt blue buildings with
verdant exotic groves, Lily-covered pools, and sculptural cactuses.
The afternoon is at leisure to continue your exploration of Marrakech.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 10: Marrakech - Departure
After breakfast, you will be collected from your hotel and transferred to Marrakech airport for your onward flight.