

Kasbahs and Citadels nights/8 days
Day 1: Marrakech
On arrival at Marrakech airport, meet & greet by your English speaking tour escort and private transfer to your hotel.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 2: Marrakech
This morning, we will discover the city's architectural attractions situated inside the Medina : The Koutoubia minaret, the most perfect Islamic religious structure in North Africa. The Saadian Mau- soleum displaying high level of decoration, using traditional stucco and Granada-style carving, typical of classical Moroccan buildings. The Bahia Palace, a masterpiece of domestic architecture and Dar Si Said one of the most beautiful palaces, now home to the museum of Moroccan Arts and Crafts.
In the afternoon, we will visit the labyrinthine souks in the old town. We will explore colourful alleys and small squares, home to stalls and ateliers devoted to specific crafts. In the early eve- ning, we will head to Djemaa El Fna, the city's main square and the beating heart of Marrakech, where mime artists and street musicians perform at every turn.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 3: Marrakech /Ouarzazate/Zagora
Today's drive via the Tizi n' Tichka pass will be along one of the most beautiful roads across the High Atlas Mountains. Enjoy breathtaking sceneries and stunning views over small local villages along green valleys all the way to the pre Saharan regions. En route we will stop to explore the im- pressive U.N.E.S.C.O. protected Kasbah of Ait Benhaddou, the backdrop for many famous films such as Lawrence of Arabia, The Mummy and Gladiator.
After lunch, we will cross the city of Ouarzazate and head South towards the Saharan mountain ranges of the Anti-Atlas. From Agdz we will start driving along the Draa valley inhabited by Berber and African tribes.
Dinner and overnight in Zagora.
Day 4: Zagora/Rissani/Erfoud
Our expedition today takes us through the huge and verdant oasis of the Draa valley via Tansikht and Nkob, where splendid scenarios of pre-Saharan Reg desert are dotted with Berber villages. The massive Sargho Mount follows, and then arrival at Alnif small villages for a stop. Continue to Erfoud on the edge of the Sahara desert via the villages of Mecissi and Rissani, an im- portant crossroads of the old gold and salt caravan trade between Morocco and the Soudan. From Erfoud get on 4X4 cars and drive approximately 40 miles to Merzouga in the impressive Sa- haran Erg Chebbi dunes. Here you will start an adventure riding camels across the sand dunes enjoying the emptiness of the sahara desert and a breathtaking sunset before returning to Erfoud. Dinner and overnight in Erfoud.
Day 5: Erfoud/Boumalne Dades
The drive to Boumalne Dades will be via the towering Todra Gorges where canyon walls are rising 1200 ft. in places, then through the Berber populated southern slopes of the High Atlas Moun- tains. We will be following the fabulous Dades Valley, one of the most fascinating sceneries in the south of Morocco until we reach the town of Boumalne.
Dinner and overnight in Boumalne Dades.
Day 6: Boumalne Dades / Marrakech
Today, we will visit the oasis of Kelaa Mgouna, famous for its Persian roses and the local perfume essences production. Often called the Valley of the Thousand Kasbahs, this area is home to some of Morocco's finest fortresses and citadels, the largest and most decorated kasbahs in the south. We will stop in the captivating city of Ouarzazate for lunch before crossing the Atlas Mountains along a twisting road with wonderful views as we descend to Marrakech. Overnight in Marrakech
Day 7: Marrakech
We will spend this morning visiting the beautiful gardens which are dotted around the city: The Menara gardens, set in an extensive olive grove with its huge pool and fabulous view of the Atlas Mountains, The Jardin Majorelle designed by the French artist Jacques Majorelle.
This garden is a fabulous tropical paradise, surrounded by vivid cobalt blue buildings with
verdant exotic groves, Lily-covered pools, and sculptural cactuses.
The afternoon is at leisure to continue your exploration of Marrakech.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 8: Marrakech - Departure
After breakfast, you will be collected from your hotel and transferred to Marrakech airport for your onward flight.