

Jewish Heritage Tour
7 nights / 8 days
a
Day 1: Casablanca
On arrival, meet & greet and private transfer to your hotel in the port city of Casablanca, Morocco's largest metropolis and home to the largest Jewish community of the country. Overnight in Casablanca.
Day 2: Casablanca/Rabat
Morning visit the Hassan II Grand Mosque, the highlight of Casablanca, followed by a visit to the Mellah, the Jewish quarter, with its temples and synagogues. Continue on to the Museum of Mo- roccan Judaism displaying collections of religious books, costumes and artifacts reflecting the rich past of the Jewish civilisation. Early afternoon depart Casablanca for Rabat via the main highway linking these two major cities. Upon arrival, visit Rabat's cultural highlights: The Hassan Tower, an excellent example of the gorgeous Mauresque style and the nearby mausoleum dedicated to Mohamed V, the founder of modern Morocco and protector of the Moroccan Jewish community during world war II. We will also visit the Mellah with its narrow streets, colourful courtyards and beautiful synagogue.
Overnight in Rabat.
Day 3: Rabat/Meknes/Fez
This morning we will travel to Meknes, one of the Imperial capitals of Morocco, once inhabited by a large Jewish community. See the city's impressive monuments: Bab Mansour gateway, one of the finest great gates of Morocco, The Granaries and the Royal Stables. Visit the Jewish quarter and its old cemetery facing the former Hebraic Thalmud-Thora school. There are Hebraic epi- taphs dating from the Christian era and Greek inscriptions still appearing in the local Synagogues. There are 11 synagogues in the new Jewish quarter of which eight are still functioning today. On to Volubilis, the largest Roman site in Morocco with its Triumphal arches, basilicas and superb mosaic floors. Arrive in Fez in the afternoon.
Overnight in Fez.
Day 4: Fez
Discover the secrets of the medieval medina-city of Fez El Bali (old Fez), founded in the 9 th. cen- tury. See the Karaouine, one of the oldest still functioning university, the Attarine Medersa
(Kóranic college), a jewel of Hispano-Moorish architecture, the Nejjarine Square and its beautiful fountain and the nearby Fondouq (Caravanserail), now converted to a museum of carpentry arte- facts. The medieval Medina is a UNESCO world heritage site.
In the afternoon visit the Mellah, the Jewish quarter built in the 14th century, once home of most in- fluential Talmudic scholars of all times such as Rabbi Isaac Alfasi and Maimonides in the years 1160 to 1165.
See the cemetery where the Rabbis and the Saints of the Jewish community are buried. Some of the tombs are over 1600 years old. Walk in the the Mellah to admire the beautiful Hispano-Moor- ish building style brought by the Jews from Andalucia and visit the Aben Danan synagogue (17th century). The old Jewish quarter provides an interesting insight into the typical local Jewish archi- tecture. Overnight in Fes.
Day 5: Fez/Marrakech
After breakfast, we will journey into the cedar forested Middle Atlas, North Africa's greatest moun- tain range. We will be crossing Berber villages of Azrou and Khenifra en route to Beni Mellal situ- ated in the heart of the fertile Tadla Plain. The latter part of the journey sees the road descend from the Atlas Mountains further south and down into the Haouz Plain, before reaching Marrakch. Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 6: Marrakech
Discover the city's architectural attractions situated inside the Medina: the Koutoubia minaret, the most perfect Islamic religious structure in North Africa, the Saadian Mausoleum displaying tradi- tional stucco and Granada-style carving and the Bahia Palace, a masterpiece of domestic archi- tecture.
In the afternoon, stroll through the 16th century Jewish quarter and visit the Rabbi Hanania Haco- hen cemetery, the burial place of Rabbi Mordekhai Ben Attar and Rabbi Pinhas Hacohen. We will visit the labyrinthine souks in the old town to explore colourful alleys and small squares, home to stalls and ateliers devoted to specific crafts. In the early evening, we will head to Djemaa El Fna, the city's main square and the beating heart of Marrakech. Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 7: Marrakech/Essaouira/Marrakech
Today we will journey to Essaouira on the Atlantic coast. Visit the city of Mogador, once one third Jewish and now known as Essaouira. See the Jewish cemetery in the Mellah, place of annual pil- grimage to the grave of the venerated Rabbi Haim Pinto whose home and synagogue are pre- served as a historic and religious site.
We will also visit the city's fortifications and Scala, a mixture of Berber and Portuguese architec- ture, and the 18th. century Medina with its carpentry cedar and thuya wood ateliers before return- ing to Marrakech.
Overnight in Marrakech.
Day 8: Marrakech - departure
After breakfast, you will be collected from your hotel and transferred to Marrakech airport for your onward flight.